## Bioreaching

Environment Tobago hopes the GEF funded project Bioreach encounters no more stumbling blocks (such as a pandemic) before full deploy. As part of our preparation to contribute your NGO is deep into the process of securing a lease in the southwest. Even though arrangements aren't 100% concrete at time of writing (late October 2020) we have already begun work, getting to know our Prospect as it were. What are we doing? To report on that in a way that makes sense in a year when nothing else does, we go back to last April. When the measures against COVID19 took precedence over - well everything. 

**The first month of Lockdown** Reacting in a positively if absolutely worried way we looked to getting food into the ground. Not so much as for whom but As soon as possible please and thank you. So said so done ET entered the Prospect. It behooves us at this point to pass a heartfelt 'Gracias' to Mr Gregory Weeks, scion of the Prospect Estate, who took to the idea of re-establishing his family's trust to  Tobago food supply chain. And so began C20, a community garden that saw the first fork biting earth in the COVID year 2020.

As indicated up top, the Bioreach mechanism is underway but stalled some in that the initiative has come under review as the coronavirus forces change. ET though remains quite confident that it will go foward at least as soon as monitoring and reporting aspects are decided upon. To be prepared for Bioreach then ET is working the lands at Prospect in pilot mode.   