% Caribbean partnerships for longer lasting recoveries
% Bertrand Bhikarry
% November  2020

## Caribbean partnerships for longer lasting recovery

<!--  published on 17asap.net/recovery3 -->

Call it pandemic fallout or even doomsday thinking but we are witnessing a time when even countries may have to call it quits. Which makes it passing strange that [CARICOM](https://caricom.org/our-community/who-we-are/) given its mandate is not looking set to seize the moment to secure this region, to make the Caribbean a world player. And if crisis provides opportunity there are no shortages these days. As recently as late September the Inter-American Development Bank circulated a report suggesting the Caribbean seems to be among the hardest hit regions worldwide. This is in context of wealth generation for the near term and social discomfort over the medium to long term. Much of this the IDB says, devolves to cost incurred around COVID 19 responses along with monetary impact wrought by Climate Change: Taken to mean spending to repair infrastructure and for building resiliency as well. Interestingly the report did not make mainstream news. Actually much of what the IDB does is under the radar unless its funding for highways, ports or big ticket items for the 'benefit' of the borrowing populations. The conversation however is not whether the Caribbean is ready to provide its own impetus for development, though this should be part of CARICOM's priorities. 

Rather. What would be nice is for CARICOM to pull out the stops to make the region into the powerhouse it has always potentially been but for the local populations, not just than those who merely use it for shelter monetarily or otherwise. The fact of the matter is the Caribbean is big but equally its also a diverse and valuable region blessed by beaches, warm water, sun and relatively friendly populations. Based on these strengths it ought to be able to demand fair(er) treatment from its partners whether its tourism, oil and gas, shipping and not least airlift. Yet such equity has not been forthcoming when we look at the demands for allowances made - for example by certain trans-Atlantic carriers before the coronavirus forced the borders to close.

Indeed Virgin remember them? Was once quite the uncompromising partner in Caribbean tourism. So too was TUI and even British Airways. Indeed these foreign corporations were all guilty of putting the screws on us so as ensure the health of their bank balances. But times being what they are nothing that was in place before the Lockdown should be reinstated without deep consideration and truly rigorous evaluation. Enter CARICOM's big moment to unite and make functional this exceptional piece of geography. Actually there are [17 things](https://sdgs.un.org/goals) and only a short time to get them done before it becomes too late to even try. Today 17ASAP's recommending only one: Better partnerships for development that's sustainable among every Caribbean country. Why? Because doomsday  should be denied a Caribbean home that's why.

